## Introduction to CoreWCF

#### Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) is an RPC mechanism that enables rich client/server communication between processes. The advantages WCF has over other RPC mechanisms such as WebAPI, REST, or gRPC are that the contracts and data types are defined using .NET classes and interfaces, it supports a high fidelity serialization of data types, has efficient binary serialization, and includes built-in security and rich communication paradigms such as callbacks and streaming. WCF supports WS-* standards-based communication using SOAP and proprietary bindings for more efficient communication between .NET on the client and server. For these reasons, WCF has been a very commonly used RPC stack in .NET Framework apps.
#### When the .NET Core project started in 2016, the goal was to take the best of .NET, but also to use it as an opportunity to pare down some of the bloat that had accrued with .NET Framework. The software industry has largely moved on from SOAP to restful Web API and gRPC. WCF has a very large and complex surface area that wasn't seen as fitting well with the “lean and mean” goals of .NET Core.
#### Microsoft had been recommending WCF as the RPC mechanism to use in .NET for some time, and customers have a large investment in WCF services. We realized that the lack of WCF capability was a major blocker to being able to modernize the apps to .NET Core.
#### The.NET team didn't initially intend to include WCF in the box, but there were a couple of devoted WCF developers who wanted to update WCF and bring it to modern .NET. So we funded the effort to seed a community project, which became CoreWCF. This gathered the attention of other developers in the community who needed WCF support, including the .NET team at AWS, who contributed toward the support of WS-* security protocols.
#### CoreWCF isn't a straight port of WCF to .NET - there were a couple of architectural changes that were needed as part of the port:
* Using ASP.NET Core as the service host, push pipeline, and the middleware pattern for extensibility.
* Removing the obsolete Asynchronous Programming Model (APM) programming pattern as it made the codebase incredibly hard to work with, which isn't desirable for a community project wanting to encourage external contributions.
* Removing platform-specific and IO code. Refactoring apps into microservices and Linux-based containers is a common requirement, and so CoreWCF needs to be able to run anywhere that .NET core can be run.

#### After three years of development, the feature set was deemed functional enough for mainstream usage and so the 1.0 of the project was released in April 2022. CoreWCF, like the .NET platfom it's built on, is cross-platform, so can be used as easily on Linux, in a Kubernetes container, or on MacOS as it can be on a Windows server.
